This is Jockel Podcast number 143.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
War is never what we think it is.
It is butchery, stupidity and hate.
It is 90% boredom.
It can be horrible.
Beyond anything you have ever imagined.
It can also be ludicrous and absurd and technologically refined.
Tragedically, its lessons are always forgotten only to be refought on still another battlefield.
The Vietnam War was our first real media war.
Spanning the globe in outraged unreality, bringing video taped death and destruction into countless homes,
fermenting protests and political justifications.
Effecting the world's generation, it shattered our dreams of abstract morality.
And in horrible reality reeducated our youth to a third world of suffering they had never known.
And had now felt deep within their own countries worldwide.
Vietnam was a symbol of the times.
The best of hopes turned inside out a fear of no return.
But for me and many others the Vietnam War was much more.
It was in a moment our survival and death.
In primitive sophistication our destruction and rebirth.
It was in short a long imprisoned cry of what we all were not.
This is a diary I kept while I was in Vietnam.
It is for the most part unstructured as many of us were.
But all of it is true.
History someone once said is trying to tell the truth through the most acceptable lie.
But this book is not about history.
It only tells the truth as far as one person felt it.
A frozen spark of time embracing one American soldier in a southeast Asian war.
Or.
And that right there is the introduction of a book.
It's a diary.
And it's written by a guy by the name of Peter Nash Swisher.
A man that was born in Oxford, England.
His dad was actually in the second world war and was killed coming home after the war.
And his mom eventually moved to Canada and then remarried to an American.
And Peter was adopted by that American father and grew up in Fort Aconston, Wisconsin and Louisville, Kentucky.
That's where he grew up.
That's where he graduated high school and he got his degree in American history.
In 1966 from Amherst College and he got his masters from Stanford in 1967.
And in 1968 he was drafted into the army.
He went to OCS November that same year.
And by 1969 he was doing his tour in Vietnam.
And he definitely has a gift for writing.
And luckily he left a little bit of that gift to be shared with us in this book of his,
which is called a Vietnam diary.
And let's go to the book.
He starts off with a little prologue.
He's got some quotes in there and I pulled out one of the quotes from the prologue.
It says the ultimate explanation of Vietnam must come from those involved there.
And observer even when blood splatters his clothes remains outside.
The basic experience of Vietnam is to be bound to stay in that war for a year or until wounded or killed.
No reporter can impose this shackle on himself.
He is like a doctor in an asylum.
He can report with compassion and empathy.
He can understand a great deal.
But the final truth remains with those who must exist in madness or in the combat of their war.
And that's actually a quote that he pulled from a guy named Arthur T. Hadley who is a war correspondent.
And that's very accurate. There's a huge difference between someone that's reporting the war.
Even though they're there and you've seen the war reporters that are right next to the infantrymen.
Sometimes they're even carrying weapons.
But there's a key component that is that those guys can leave if they want to.
And those soldiers cannot.
They're going to have to do their year.
And that's the way it works and that's a huge difference.
Psychological, huge difference.
And a real difference of reality.
And so that the diary starts off November 20th, 1967.
He's going through basic training and fordix new jersey.
Pulled a little couple, a little section out of that.
What's the spirit of the bayonet? To kill.
Sergeant H. And he refers everyone here just by the first letter of their last name.
Sergeant H was our third instructor, another airborne veteran.
And one of the two survivors in his Vietnam company who came back alive.
Once when his weapon jammed in combat, he had killed two veat con with his bayonet and his rifle bat.
But sometimes we heard him screaming in his sleep.
You see this poncho? You see it? Smell it.
It's got the same musty odor of the jungle. Smell the fungus. Smell it.
I wrapped up a lot of bodies in these ponchos.
You goddamn stupid trainees. You'll see you'll all be over there.
Yeah, I mean this is 1967. So you're starting to get trained by guys that are coming back from the war.
And they're going to have a little bit of different attitude than if they were a peace time guys.
Although this is, you know, the Korean war was shortly before this and the World War II.
So you have a lot of veterans in the war at this time.
When I came in when I was going through seal training there was not a lot of combat veterans.
There was there was some Vietnam guys for sure.
But you know, I was going through a 1991.
So most of the Vietnam guys were getting towards the end of their career.
The Vietnam war for the teams.
What was it? 72. Maybe the last two ones went over there.
So they were at the end of their 20 year mark. You know, some of the guys that stuck around for 30 years. Yeah.
Roger Aiden. Yeah. For sure. There's some of those old master chiefs. Absolutely.
But those weren't your primary instructors. Your primary instructors were guys that had been in for five years and never seen combat.
So that all changed now. Of course, with the current wars going on.
Back to the book February 13th, 1969 orders.
It's not very pleasant to get orders overseas.
The initial shock honestly scares you a lot.
You think,
Maybe I'll die.
But later, the endless reams of paperwork show you dying is not that simple.
Take your plague, flu, typhus and cholera shots, for example.
One medical sergeant is Mac the knife, especially if you're on orders.
Then there's RV end training in M16 rifle qualification and press orientation and a multitude of sign-out sheets.
Do you have any overdue books at the post library?
You think, yes, I do have an overdue book.
Will they still send me to Vietnam if I keep it hidden under my laundry bag?
June 1, 1969, the last night, before the plain leaves from Travis, you are together for the last time.
Stoic and brave.
At least that's how it is in the movies.
In reality, you are sick and heart in the mind and belly.
You talk of the past pretending, but knowing what each suffers silently.
It isn't very pleasant or romantic at all.
Why are we such stupid people? She sobbed tears on sweat, body, clothes.
You love her fiercely.
Your country is another question entirely.
As usual, I am skipping through portions of this book to make it short enough
to cover on the podcast.
I don't even know if this book is in publication anymore.
I had a PDF file from back in the day, and I don't even know where I got it from.
I googled that there's some PDF files floating around, but get it.
And read the whole thing. June 3, 1969, H.H.
Wars should be dramatic like the movies, sweating and landing in a craft, hitting the beach under fire.
Who believe I went to war in a pink orange,
Branif International airplane with a stewardess in purple leotards,
wishing us a good trip on behalf of the captain in the crew?
Going to war for Christ's sake in a pink orange airplane, I used to think war was somewhat serious.
Then this is, again, this is a lot of people don't realize us.
They use contract air, they still do that sometimes.
And you'll fly over to civilian plane.
July 6, 1969 airborne.
Clouding dust betrays a lonely convoy dirt smothered, embraced in jungle vines and barren hills,
Sullen crags and silence.
A flash of light below, two more exploding lines, we see toy trucks crawling,
clawing, spitting snake-like steel.
Two small for life-sized war.
Two far away for death.
So his first visions of combat and he's looking down at it, it doesn't really,
he's admitting he's like, two far away, it's not real form.
That changes.
July 17, 1969, my first body.
I saw my first body lying west of Plai Kuh stretched out on a poncho,
waiting to be airlifted back to the coast.
He was gray white and very dead.
Even today I can see his gaping bloody mouth gasping for air.
A young kid who couldn't have been more than 20 years old.
Then I thought, Christ, he's really, really dead.
I remembered some James Bond and John Wayne's sickles and those TV melodromas
where the American love for violence is only make believe.
Where the movie and TV casualties can always get up and go home probably in time for supper.
But this kid would not.
He would make Walter Cronkites CBS News report
as just another figure.
Changing 229 American battle deaths reported this week to 230 instead.
And then everyone, including the president,
would turn to watch the Monday night football game on Channel 5.
And here was my first body.
I should have been trained for this sort of thing a long time ago.
Playing cops and robbers, cowboys and Indians, bang bang, you're dead.
And he was.
He really was.
July 25, 1969, remembrance 2.
This is how I was when I saw you last.
I was stagnant.
Going no place and searching desperately for something I had lost long ago in the barracks.
And so we escaped to the gray New England coast and the Boston fog and a warm downy bed to greet the night.
And I began to live again and laugh.
I love you still forgiving me that month.
And forgiving yourself without promise.
August 11, 1969, news item.
It was president Nixon's first visit to Vietnam as president.
He insisted on going to Saigon rather than Camron Bay,
the huge supply base.
Camron Bay doesn't count. He said, that isn't Vietnam.
Time magazine August 8, 1969.
Deer Sir.
In light of a vehicle on sapper attack on Camron Hospital,
I questioned the source of those people who believe Camron Bay isn't Vietnam.
I think the 98 men who are casualties and the parents of those who were killed
would agree that Camron Bay is an exactly Disneyland.
You bastard.
September 1, 1969.
Rodriguez.
Jim Rodriguez was killed last week.
After only 12 days in country,
I remember as an upperclassman how we locked his heels together and taught him the OCS version of military discipline.
It was double time.
Four times around the field, Boony runs added to Jack's harassment and constant pressure.
Physically and mentally, Rodriguez never broke.
A matter of fact, he met our challenge one better and went on to airborne training,
training briefly serving later as an airborne instructor.
I wonder how much we really influenced Rodriguez.
We showed him how to play soldier,
but no one ever taught him how to play war.
It's hard to play games with dead men.
Yeah, like I said, this style of writing, this just straight forward style of writing.
It's different.
There's something very gutteral about it.
It seems like he's writing this with when he wrote this.
He had no intention of whatever he was ever sharing it with anyone.
That's kind of what it seems.
Especially he's talking about the woman that he loved back home.
You can see his attitude.
It goes kind of all over the place sometimes.
And so there's a sort of level of just reality in this that I don't know.
It's really, it hits in a different way than many of the books, many of the books.
September 10, 1969 combat engineers,
bronze backs bent to bridges, culverts, picks and timber trussles,
sweat and grime and death by hidden minds and snipers,
construction repair,
and when will you fix my air conditioner, ask headquarters.
Again, I know I've talked about the engineers that work with us in a body
and how incredibly hard and dangerous that job was.
Those guys were heroes like you couldn't even believe what these guys were doing.
And this is just the same exact sentiment there.
I just said engineers, he's as combat engineers, that's exactly right.
It's combat engineers, 100%.
September 11, 1969 artillery can encrashes eastward,
magnificent terrible thunder, bright flash, night boarded,
assuraging mass explodes in thunder,
pagence of fire, again, again, in savage awe,
we celebrate the festival of death.
September 20, 1969, a heavy load on the way back from Queen Non yesterday,
we stopped our Jeep to help an old man with a heavy load,
which had fallen by the side of the road.
The old man was carrying home the remains of his youngest son,
who had died during recent fighting on Long The Cambodian border.
The sidegun government he said had provided a free coffin
and transportation back to his village,
but the truck had lost an axle five kilometers down the road.
This wasn't his first tragedy.
He told us that his eldest son had died two years older, earlier,
in the assault on way,
but he never saw that son's body since he was a vet-con.
He was an old man, he said, heartbroken and ignorant.
He had lost two sons, drafted a fight on different sides of the war.
And even now, he didn't really know what they had died for.
We hear that about the Civil War in America,
that you'd have brothers fighting against brothers.
And I mean, clearly this happened in Vietnam,
but you don't think of a guy that's given up on the son to each side
and they're both dead.
September 24th, 1969, a night.
The heavens lie beyond us void, yet filled with substance, light and form, infinity.
From nothing all exists,
as billions age our world not yet a grain of sand
in mighty awe, the universe endures.
Mordle, weak and woman born, look beyond the sky,
some clear and cloven night by lands and meet the sea,
embrace the stars in infinite conceit,
deny from nothing all you feel,
and celebrate the overmind, original primal force,
the birth of all that.
The original primal force, the birth of all that is.
October 2, 1969, the convoy.
Two hours before the dawn,
our convoy groups quietly efficiently.
Trailer tanks and armor trucks with plated steel alert.
Rose of limitless in human war machines,
assembled in Detroit from America's great arsenal of doubt.
Giant tinker toys of war,
the mission always comes before the welfare of the man.
The all-pervading mission that no one ever knows,
the men come second,
rose of tired army ants and dusty all of drab,
no longer young, grim and grimy,
keep their faith in faded photographs of home,
a virgin hope of things to come.
Or some in beads,
an albatross of peace medallions hanging from their tarnish neck,
a human cry and muted rage to say,
at war, I am, I am.
The soon forgotten symbols of a never-carrying world.
It's time to move, a hundred muffled coughs and snars of steel
and iron trucks, the schedule must be met.
We can't be late for war.
The dawn is rising as we rumble past our first awakened village.
Here people move to fold and field,
a farmer even now to toil behind his beast
and plow the sacred soil his father once endured.
His desecrated tomb of craters, mines and shells
across the ridge and down the dusty roads.
But it will pass.
It always has.
The land in doors, all things.
Very true statement, very true statement.
Especially here at Medi-Can imagine.
So what did I say?
1969 yet.
1969.
He's looking at these farmers and this war is going on all around them.
And guess what they're doing, they're doing what they've been doing for thousands of years.
They're flying those fields and this war is going to come and it's going to go.
And they're still going to be there doing what they do.
The soil is going to endure.
The land is going to endure.
October 9, 1969, the sporting life.
I met a huge gunship pilot in Queen-On,
who had just extended his tour of duty down in the May-Colong Delta.
Most pilots did the job they had to do and then went home.
But not this one.
He actually enjoyed his work.
He bragged to a group of us one night that during a dull day
where there was little action in the Delta he kept in practice
by shooting at numerous water buffalo in rice patties
and sniping at frightened farmers.
In one case he said he played Captain Mouse
with an old papa son on a bicycle,
weaving frantically down the road.
I scared to hell out of him for a while he said.
Then I got him good with a beautiful long burst.
No chance.
Hell he was in a free fire zone.
Probably V.C. anyways.
All the slopes down there are V.C.
We looked at him incredulously.
And then left his table, leaving him alone,
gloting to himself.
Even at war he remained a leper within some strange, unwritten code.
I wish you were here right now.
So I could hold you very close and tell you things.
There are no words for him.
I wish you were here right now.
So I could hold you very close and tell you things.
There are no words for him.
October 14th, 1969, home won.
We cling to something close at home, a girl or shadow on the wall,
free son, a ragged hope, so precious and return.
If you're not in the middle of the road,
your precious and return.
If lost, we too are lost.
Not finding hate as soldiers seldom hate,
but bitter, stale, in passion, dead.
We lose our need to love home too.
I love you as gentle dawn,
Spread out against the savage sky
a part of life so very far away.
Yet, again, important to point out as I always try to,
that these men that went to war were not just soldiers
and not just Marines and not just sailors, not just airmen,
but they were men with hopes and dreams.
They were men and love with that girl back home,
and they couldn't stop thinking about her.
October 23rd, 1969, May.
I was talking to May today, a pretty Vietnamese girl,
who works in headquarters to touch me as a secretary,
May speaks English very well.
And often we joke and talk about a lot of trivial things,
but today the conversation was more serious.
What would happen, I asked her,
if the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese take over the South one day?
May's face remained impassive.
I worked for the Americans, so they would shoot me,
then they would kill my family.
And that is the reality.
And that's the reality that, you know, when ISIS came into Romadi,
after we had left about seven years, after we had left,
and after Romadi had been peaceful for about seven years,
and ISIS came in and took it over.
It's one of the first things that they did was they,
anyone that they knew had worked with coalition forces at all,
they got murdered.
And their families got murdered.
And from what I, the information that I received from my contacts
over there was about 500 families were murdered.
All of them.
So yeah, when, if you're going to go into a country,
and you're going to work there,
and you're going to support some of the people,
make sure you stay there and told the job is done.
No, 22nd.
1969, slopes and dunks.
He was a young, box sergeant from Alabama.
Proud of his artillery days at Fort Cilocal Homa,
and proud to defend America from worldwide communist aggression.
The Vietnamese communists in his eyes were subhumans.
Anyway, slopes and dunks who felt no human emotion,
and therefore who could have been killed.
He saw this enemy he told me for the first time
during the 10th of 1969 when, for days and nights on end,
his battery kept mowing down human wave enemy assaults
by lowering the Howard Cers to tree trunk level
and firing bumblebee canisters which sprayed thousands of anti-personnel darts
into the enemy troops.
And the enemy was killed by the
army of the army.
And the army was killed by the army.
But still they kept on coming.
One wave after another.
On the night after the last attack,
he went out with a small patrol to survey the damage
and found hundreds and thousands of the enemy dead.
But he also found frightened young boys and young men
who had died clutching one another in terror.
Or who had died trying to bandage each other's wounds.
And the young sergeant told me that he knew then
that they must also have mothers, sisters,
and wives at home just like his men.
And that they had been terrified during the battle
just like his men.
And that they bled and fell pain and cried just like his men.
And he never called them slopes or dunks ever again.
November 21, 1969, Sydney, Australia.
After six months at war, a ten-day miracle.
A beautiful heavenly city on the bay.
The front-tier spirit with a rise sense of Aussie humor.
Drinking a skoener of swan lager with new friends,
invited everywhere, a genuine Australian openness,
up front and honest, the bay and the opera house.
Bondi Beach riding the waves, the restaurants,
a nightlife incredibly beautiful tall Australian girls,
disarming in very real.
Not afraid to be themselves to disagree, out going in direct,
deep and beautiful like their city.
Sydney, Australia, the reality of heaven,
treating us as people again and true friends,
making us feel more at home than home itself.
Our last night was spent in a seafood restaurant.
Mrs. Murphy, the restaurant older told us,
if you'd come earlier boys, we'd have had some fine dates
for you tonight.
Unfortunately, no wine was sold after nine pm with dinner.
An older couple approached our table.
Here boys take our bottle.
Your father's really helped us during the last war.
And we know how you feel about this one.
God bless you and take care boys.
Take care.
Sydney, Australia.
A beautiful lasting friendship.
I love a fair with life that back in Vietnam.
Had all two soon the unfamiliar face.
That precious things take on when our heart is left behind.
Yeah, I came in.
I've been to Australia and it's awesome.
And I can't even imagine when it would be like going from the Vietnam war
into Australia for ten days of leave.
And to have the Australian people just be awesome.
So, to the Aussies out there, thanks for the support.
December 19th, 1969, incoming.
Adolf Thud, muffled close, growing fearful,
Fud followed twice.
Another crash, Christ, body, feet,
flailing, hands and sweat, waiting, waiting, crash.
God, O Jesus, crash.
Reseding, thud, waiting, still waiting.
Not you, thank God.
Move your head, not you.
Move your arm.
Not this time.
So, there you go.
That's incoming.
That's waiting for.
That's when you hear it, when you hear it, get launched.
And you know it's coming.
That's what it is.
When you say not you, that's like he's checking.
Dang is that.
Yeah, move your head hit.
Nope, not you.
Move your arm.
Not this time or good.
Yeah.
January 22nd, 1970 dispatch at 19, 1145 hours.
10 kilometers northwest of Hoynon, a 16 year old youth from a nearby Hamlet, entered
Fond Quit.
Hamlet and through two fragmentation grenades into a group of children and marines of the
USC combined civic action, built-in two three seven.
There were four friendly killed in action, Vietnamese children and 15 wounded in action, 11 Vietnamese children
and four United States Marine Corps.
The youth who threw the grenades escaped.
That's just, I mean, just that snapshot of what you're dealing with.
There you are in a civic action, built-in out there trying to help out.
And a 16 year old kid comes in hooks to grenades and wounds 11 of the little kids you're trying to help and four of your men.
And that's what your life is.
February 4th, 1970.
And pleading eyes are combat medic with all his tubes and bottles could never heal that gaping wound.
Nor still your fearful cry.
Jesus, God, what a petty, careless war when armies crash and hate to disembowl a child.
February 15th, 1970, a green beret in not-train.
One can never generalize about individual divisions regiments or any particular unit.
It's hard enough generalizing about particular people.
But in not-train, I did meet a green beret who, as one individual, was at least honest about his motivation.
I was sharing his battle of Jack Daniels a nice.
I joined the Green berets for excitement, I guess.
On one hand, we're living with the yards raising crops growing pigs and hunting Charlie.
On the other hand, you kill and drink, smoke and horror.
Every minute may be your last, you know what I mean?
Man, if I were back in the States doing this sort of thing, I'd either be dead or sitting on death row by now.
But over here, we've got a free license, you know what I mean?
Your setty was thinking of settling down after the war, getting into a business trainee program when he got back to the States,
or maybe into some branch of law enforcement.
Yeah, war is suited to some people, for sure.
March 1, 1970, interlude.
I saw a movie tonight that made me think of you.
It's bad, thinking, you know?
Yesterday, I thought of Lee, who is killed last month in one corps.
The movie was one of the few we saw together last year.
How different, seeing it again, alone sitting in the sand at war?
It made me think of our own interlude.
Why we could never accept less than we had, and would never have again.
I don't know if you want to think about that sentence too much. It's a little bit heavy.
March 4, remembrance 3.
When you smiled at me, I knew you were different.
You had no snide remark for my uniform, or ununnered, a look of mock pity,
which seemed to say, look everybody, it's one of them again.
And you didn't approach me with a fashionable, overriding concern,
or preached to me from a pre-assembled dreadnought of morality.
No, and you didn't stare away from me, or at me, or threw me, all you said was hello.
But through that one simple word, I was no longer alone.
Observation, flower pedal, pushing through the crusted earth,
embraces light and dies.
The ugly root, endures, but never booms.
March 14, 1970, the provost Marshall,
Jeep stealing in Vietnam was a national pastime.
The Vietnamese nationals had acquired chain cutters,
and became very adept at Western automakanics, with special emphasis in jump-starting the engines
and removing all cereal or identification markings with lightning speed.
Even the shorebound navy installations took great delight in their midnight
requisitions of army material.
And the green berets from Nautreng had on one occasion brought in a CH-47 sling helicopter
and airlifted away a brand new vehicle that was apparently impossible to obtain through ordinary supply channels.
Yes, the new provost Marshall at Cameron Bay decided to do something about these thefts.
An implemented a stern directive from the military police to all personnel who had their vehicle stolen.
They would now have to write an extensive report in triplicate to the provost Marshall,
explaining the surrounding circumstances and further appear before a board of inquiry,
remaining liable to possible article 15, or cart martial proceedings for negligently allowing these thefts to occur.
These orders were to take fast to take effect by the provost Marshall's directive on March 11th.
That would really take care of the problem, the provost Marshall promised the general,
by the sternist measures and prompt prosecution of any negligent offenders.
On the morning of March 13th, the provost Marshall was seen walking to work.
Someone had stolen his Jeep.
Yeah, I like that good little story.
There's that stuff definitely happens.
My C-B's were quite good at that.
So in Task Unit Bruser, we had C-B's, the construction battalion, they're navy,
guys that do construction, but they also have combat skills.
They're motto is we build, we fight, and they should have another motto that's like, we get things.
So we need them.
So my guys were awesome at that, and they were also awesome at everything else they did,
but it was nice that when I needed something, they would find a way to acquire it.
Thanks, their TU Bruser, C-B's.
Alright, March 15th, 1970, graffiti. He's got the list of graffiti here.
Life for 986 days in a wake-up.
Next, prefer I came in to army, this is all misspelled.
Before I came in to army, I couldn't spell engineer, now I won.
Here's a good one. The US Army, 184 years of tradition, unhampered by progress.
The army's like a rubber. It gives you that false sense of security while you're getting screwed.
It's not a real war yet. We're just 550,000 military advisors.
Fighting for pieces like screwing for chastity.
Share in the fright with freedom, go home with a friend.
Next, give me your hearts and minds, and I'll burn your fucking hut.
Next war is hell, but a year without a woman is a real bitch.
Next, how can we get to the moon, but I can't get home.
Next, those personnel with short stacks and low-monet manifold pressure.
Please taxi closer to the urinal.
Next, the Assyrian lives, that's a little shout out to catch 22.
The book. Next, would the last American soldier leaving Vietnam please turn out the light at the end of the tunnel?
I think that's in reference to the fact that the higher-ups kept saying that they could see the light at the end of the tunnel.
I am coming. We're getting there. We're starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
March 19th, 1970, love, LEV.
We once had a little puppy called Love. She was the company mascot, and dug just about everyone.
She was one of those beautiful little creatures who hadn't ever learned to hate or fear.
She trusted everyone.
Love trusted the sergeant too, even though the sergeant wanted her wasted as a damn nuisance.
So love never came home with us, but neither did the sergeant.
Better have struck convoyes and mechanized patrols often wed many men to their vehicles during most of their Vietnam tour.
The names of such better have included.
Here's the names of a bunch of different vehicles, battling Bob, psychedelic flower, old faithful roadrunner, acid rock, hell for certain,
puzzle palace, push your man, grim reaper, iron butterfly, grass-bender, artful dodger, moratorium, and malfunction junction.
And my first deployment to Iraq, you might appreciate this.
I think I've said this before, but our vehicles, my first deployment were named after after the movie Kingpin.
Bigger and was one of them for sure, yeah, that was all.
And then, I think it was primarily life's idea.
He wanted to name and didn't name, they named all the vehicles after GI Joe characters, like co-break commander and stuff like that.
So there you go, get some.
You know, it's one of those things, like, is that just always going to happen?
That's what I was saying. In 300 years, if you have a war, and there's some kind of vehicle, do you just name them?
Whatever kind of cool names you can give them.
I think it's because it's a little point of control that you have even as a frontline guy, like that you can do and it's cool.
Yeah, it's like kind of-
It's just your little, gives you war, a little character.
Yeah, like it's a little fun thing. You can add, like, you know, how the patch is situation or, you know, just all that stuff or seal house BTF, you know, kind of thing.
It's like, to kind of deviate from the war, the almost in your own, like, little-
It's the last, for a little creativity.
Little creativity, yes.
It's funny because, well, naming vehicles was good, and I remember, so they we used a number of the vehicles,
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven or one, two, three, four, five, six or whatever, one, two, three, four, five.
There's a problem with it though, because the vehicles aren't always where they're supposed to be when you get on a large scale.
So you go, oh wait a second, so you'd go out and get a number of third vehicle, which is number three, but you weren't supposed to be in that vehicle.
Number three vehicles, number six and position right now, because they got scrambled up while they were maneuvering.
Yeah.
So that's why we ended up- I told the guys name the vehicles, no numbers.
That's what they did, named them, and they named them after Kingpin.
Yeah, yeah.
No.
I think there might be a picture of- there's definitely some pictures of my first appointment in the dichotomy of, in the dichotomy of leadership book,
but I want to see if you can see any of the vehicle names written on the side.
Zevol is one of the ones that I saw.
Big Zev.
Yeah.
Not in the book, but one of the pictures.
That's me.
That's from Ramadi.
That was big Zev.
I think that was actually our big giant warpick.
I always liked, there was a- I think it was the Marine Corps had a big six-by-truck that was, they had warpick.
That was a warpick.
I always liked that one.
That's kind of a given that you're going to have it, no, I was doing names on that vehicle.
Check.
Amen.
Next March 20th, 1970, the two fronts.
The kid was caught out in the open by a stray mortar round.
They don't make coffee the way they used to the businessman said.
And those kids with long hair, Jesus.
The impact cut off his arm.
The lower half of his right leg.
And blew off half his head.
Ousing red, black, blood into the sand.
He was 19 years old and from Ohio.
Well, the president must know what he's doing.
He has my full support.
Where the hell is the waitress?
The kid only had two weeks left in Vietnam.
Three days before he'd already framed a copy of his orders home.
April 2nd, 1970, a bond of friendship.
It was hot.
The ambush had been effective.
Out there in the brush, there was little protection from sight or hail of gunfire.
The soldier caught sight of his buddy seriously wounded.
Sir, please, let me get him.
Please.
The officer, well aware of their deep friendship, hesitated.
And then said, go, but it's not worth it.
Your friend is probably dead and you may get killed trying.
But the soldier went.
Miraculously, he hoisted his friend onto his shoulders
and under heavy fire, the two of them stumbled back into the trench.
The officer looked tenderly at the would be rescuer.
I told you it wouldn't be worth it.
Your buddy is dead and you are badly wounded.
I know sir, the soldier replied, but you're wrong.
It was worth it.
Because just before he died, he looked at me and said,
I knew you'd come.
It didn't matter that day that one man was white and the other black.
Thank you, God, that out of a hellish war, we can still learn the meaning of true brotherhood.
Chaplin Donald J. Robinson from the 101st Airborne Division.
That's where he took that story from.
When you were kind of jumping back and forth to like,
Oh, coffee isn't made with you, is that with he like he had,
he had, what, what?
I should have described it a little bit better.
He had one set of the stuff that was taking place in the civilian world
back in the state.
He had him parentheses.
So while this kid is getting ripped apart by a mortar round,
back in American parentheses, it just says,
you know, oh, hey, where's the way it's just landing?
And you can imagine how, you know,
I think even during World War II, during World War II,
the guys were overfighting, but at home,
like everyone was focused on the war effort.
And they were rationing and they were building.
They changed factories to start building planes instead of like civilian cars.
They built war planes and they built bombs and they built ammunition.
They built guns.
Like the whole country was focused on it.
In Vietnam, that wasn't really happening.
You know, wasn't really that same situation.
If you got drafted, your whole world freaking went upside down.
But if you didn't get drafted, you were going to live your normal life
and go work your job and live normal and go to the restaurant
and ask where the hell of a waitresses.
Yeah.
That's similar to what it's like now.
I mean, actually, that is what it's like now.
And I've talked about that a bunch of times.
Talk about it with Sam Harris.
You know, we, the war, the wars that we have right now,
there's a vast majority of the population of America.
It doesn't affect them at all.
It literally doesn't affect them at all.
Yeah.
Because it has had no impact on the food that you eat,
the gas that you use, zero impact.
The, even the way you travel like, okay, you could say, well,
you know, we used to be able to, and I don't know how much you traveled
before 9.11.
I traveled a lot before 9.11.
And, you know, it was a lot easier to travel.
There's a lot of quicker and there was to fight.
It's always seem to be happening, which is just the easier deal.
Yeah.
But now, TSA's dialed in enough when you get used to the program
and whatever, it's not that big of a deal.
It's not like your freaking life is not a big deal.
Yeah.
So really, the wars that we're going through right now
for people that are detached from them.
So, I mean, obviously you got millions here.
You got the families of the millions.
Sure.
But once you step outside, you know, you step one or two degrees away from that.
You could be living your life.
And if you didn't see it on the news,
you would never ever know that there was a war going on.
Yeah.
And that's, and what from, I think the reason he wrote that
was because that's talking about now from the perspective of like,
when you're in the war, you're thinking about those people that
they're not even, they're not even affecting them.
Occasionally, watch the news and go, oh, there was someone else
who was killed.
Okay, can I get, can you pass the mayonnaise?
Yeah.
And even, oh, like, if you're not engaged in it, it's like, you know,
just how you say when you only when you're watching the news,
that's when you see it.
And even now, like when you watch the news, you're like, oh, wow,
you know, that's, that's too bad that's happening.
Literally the moment the news goes off.
And I'm not talking about the war stuff.
I'm talking about everything the news really.
Because, you know, I don't know, car accident or something.
Well, the news is like, it's getting so ridiculous right now.
The news cycles completely ridiculous right now.
And it's no big surprise that why people listen to this podcast,
why people are listening to all podcasts, why people are watching YouTube
videos that are two and three and four hours long.
Why is that?
Because they want to have a little bit more depth to what they're hearing.
I was on the airplane.
I got done, you know, they make you put away your computer.
And so I turned on the news because it had streaming cable news.
And I turned it on.
And I mean, I'm going, when do they turn on, when do they make you put away
your computer 20 minutes?
I had 20 minutes left.
And in that 20 minutes, there was like three or two sections of commercials.
Actually, there might have been three sections of commercials that are all like four
minutes long.
I was getting so mad.
I'm thinking myself, I'm thinking myself, bro, I just want to know what's
happening.
And you got to show me another commercial about some mattress company
or what I mean just just trying to sell me stuff.
And then it goes back to the coverage, right?
You go back to the coverage and the coverage is people yelling at each other.
There's no conversation happening.
It's, it's, it's, and I've done, you know, I've done plenty of news, bits,
bites, whatever it's called.
And you compared to a podcast.
It's a joke.
It's like jokes.
It's literally nothing.
That's why that's why you know, Elon Musk going on a Joe Rogan and talking for three
hours.
You know, that's a whole different story.
That's a whole different thing.
And I, you know, I kind of think that's the beginning.
That's sort of, it's the beginning of the end.
And some stuff and the starting of some other stuff.
But that when you, when you just can turn on the news and it's, and it's over
that quickly and it doesn't bring you anything other than literally the headline.
It's just the headline, which a lot of times is misleading on.
Which is, yeah, which is, is clickbait often, right?
It's clickbait.
It's your cell phone killing you.
They're not saying the cell, you're so cool.
Kill you, but is it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But now I got to know when I got to click on that thing.
Yeah, yeah.
So now it is that's even, you could say that's probably even worse because
there's so many good and plus not to mention back then, if you were going to watch,
you know, my dad was telling me this the other day that back in the,
I said, bro, I'm going to do, they had a, you know, everyone watched, like he just mentioned,
he mentioned a Walter Crankite in this and like my dad was like,
everyone watched Walter Crankite.
So everyone had a base common theme of discussion.
So when you went to work on Thursday, everyone had watched the news on Wednesday,
everyone saw the same news.
Yeah.
And nowadays, so if you wanted to watch TV, you were going to watch that.
I mean, I remember Walter Crankite, you know, that was my dad,
that's what was on that.
You watched Walter Crankite, that was just, that was just how.
And now you can go home and never watch the news.
So you can be completely, you know, not only, you know, it's one thing to say,
hey, the news is over about the war in 30 seconds and I don't think about it anymore.
You can just never even watch it.
You can just watch Instagram videos of car crashes or or,
or one of the dumb stuff you watch on on Instagram,
the junk girl fails.
Drunk girl fails.
Yeah, let's watch 30, what, what, what, what, I've got, you know, an extra half an hour.
I'll watch a half an hour with a drunk girl's fails.
And they're, and they're funny and they're entertaining.
And they, what part of the mind do they stimulate?
Because they must stimulate some part of your brain.
Yeah.
Because they, when you watch car crashes, you know,
and now I was going to throw street fights in there,
but when I watch street fights, I'm actually picking them apart.
Right?
I'm actually trying to learn something.
Yeah.
And, but, you know, drunk girl's fake, drunk girl fails.
Those, you don't learn a lot from.
Yeah.
I, I've shown my daughter's drunk girl fails.
Like when they were 13, 14 years old and be like,
oh, this is what alcohol will get you.
Yeah.
And, and the other thing for a while,
they were showing binge drinking in England.
Oh, yeah.
And, you know, it was actually in the news a little bit.
And it would just be, you know, men and women,
but I'd show my daughters the women of just girls
just completely, passed out drunk,
skirk hanging open.
I mean, just puk all over themselves.
And I'm like, hey, this is drinking.
This is alcohol.
This is, this is what your little friends
are to getting all excited about and think it's so cool.
This is it.
This is what it gets you.
Puk.
So, yeah.
Good, good tool.
So, you can totally avoid.
You can basically customize your information flow
into your brain to whatever you want.
Yeah.
And I'll go one step further and tell you that the algorithms
that YouTube is putting ahead of you in front of you.
So, when you get done watching one YouTube video of a drunk girl fail,
what pops up nine more drunk girl fails.
Yep.
That's right.
Now, the algorithm that's actually going to just lead you to stupidity.
Yeah.
Right?
They should put instead of putting advertising,
it says should be like, okay, for every four really dumb YouTube video you watch,
you should have to watch at least one quarter of that compiled time
into something that's going to teach you something about being a better human being.
Yeah.
Well, I don't know how good a business model that would be,
but, you know, it's a good idea kind of in theory, I guess.
You got to get beyond just thinking about money echo tross.
Yeah.
I think it meant it.
I'm not saying they shouldn't.
I'm saying that's why they won't.
But yeah.
Yeah.
It's like right now because right now in this, in the, they're trying to put these limits on time,
or I think the social media people are saying, hey, we're going to help you monitor your time that you spend on social media.
So, there'll be like a little thing that pops up.
You've spent 40 minutes on social media today.
Yeah.
Because you're right.
You know what they're not going to say?
You reached your limit.
I'm not going to say that.
I'm not going to say, hey, you watched nine stupid videos.
Now you're going to watch three educational ones to make you smarter.
I mean, they're going to show you the time of your consumption.
Right next to the next video that they made.
Yeah.
You like to watch, you know.
They're going to complete your resistable tea.
Yeah.
That's a thing that you got to watch.
A drunk girl failing.
You can see her and she's like standing on the edge of whatever.
Yeah.
That's going to be a good one.
Traced in like red, with exclamation park, you know, or point, you know how they do that.
Yeah.
It's like, oh, it's so exciting.
I see what you're doing.
But yeah.
So you can be completely, the point there is you can be completely disconnected, especially
now, completely disconnected with the reality of the world.
Yeah.
All right.
April 4th, 1970, Colonel S.
Many officers and NCOs and Vietnam know their business.
Even though they hate the war, a war not of their own making, they really take care of
their men and don't give a damn about frontline formalities.
All they want is to get as many of their men back alive as they can.
The men deeply respect these officers and NCOs in justifiably so.
So there you go.
A little bit a little bit of leadership here.
Take care of your men.
Other, back to the book.
Officers are little people with rank and authority and little else.
They cannot command respect by their action.
So they must command by their respect verbally.
And for petty offenses for haircuts, polished boots and frontline solutes.
Colonel S was one of these men, a little puffy hamster man who would not hesitate to lick the
general's boots on any occasion.
And he had the audacity on numerous occasions to lamb-bast various troops for their sloppy
haircuts and uniforms at the base p.x.
Such troops had just come in from the field or from a long exhausting convoy.
And it not seen the likes of a shower, much less a barburn or number of weeks.
They always looked at the Colonel and total disbelief.
And then the company ending in a long imprisoned rage for this antiseptic staff,
toady.
Colonel S's written directives were likewise incomprehensible, unnecessary wasteful and in a word
unbelievably stupid.
Many of us thought the Joseph Heller's catch-22 was an unreal parody about war until we met Colonel S.
One night some Vietcong sappers blew up our petroleum storage dump and it was incredible.
It was an incredible blaze for three days and nights.
Anyway, after the immediate attack Colonel S jumped out of his Jeep, grabbed his 45 caliber pistol
and went chasing after the VC hell-bunt for hell-bent, for musty leather, stumbling over the sand dunes
like a long retired prop man in a John Wayne war movie, attempting a futile and embarrassing comeback.
We all sort of hope that the Vietcong would follow the logical rules of guerrilla warfare and leave one sniper back
to cover their escape waiting for the much beloved staff Colonel to compounding over the hill.
But no such luck.
Apparently the VC knew all about the Colonel and wanted to leave him right where he was and who could blame them.
So there you go.
There's those type of people they exist now.
They're going to exist.
And if you're one of those people that started listening to podcasts and joined the military
and I know there's a lot of you, get some, that's awesome.
When you don't think that every officer you meet is going to be one of these guys that takes care of their men
and doesn't give a damn about front line formalities and is deeply respected, that's not a majority.
Now this other knucklehead, the guy that's licking the boots of the general, that's not a majority either.
But they exist. They're there.
April 9, 1970, waiting.
Waiting is 90% of the game in Vietnam. You keep busy. You do your job 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Occasionally there's a half day off a stand-down or ten days of R&R outside of Vietnam.
But the rest of the time you wait, seven days a week, 24 hours a day until things happen, you wait.
And then when it happens you're right in the middle of it. When you're not working or sleeping, you're still waiting.
And time can play some horrible tricks on you. Vietnam may be a one-year tour for most soldiers.
But they have actually spent many more years there than they care to talk about.
Time and Vietnam slows down almost to a stop every minute of every day.
The Vietnamese have lived with this phenomenon for century, but the Western soldier cannot.
Your last two weeks in Vietnam like your first two weeks are measured in months, and you're especially paranoid about getting hit during these last two weeks.
And you wait.
Your off-duty time is short-lived and very precious.
With a 24-hour day and a seven-day a week, it is the only time you have to blow off your stress and anxiety.
Your loneliness, fear, and frustration. Sometimes you can almost, but only almost.
Forget the war.
During this time we grew together with our friends.
We shared each other's hurt and pain are love and hate for home and war.
We got to know each other in a very deep sense.
Maybe better than our wives or girlfriends ever would.
We talked philosophy and we talked nonsense. We laughed and we cried.
We learned to live and grow.
We looked back and we looked ahead.
We talked about changes, gain us, and in America.
We committed ourselves to both.
Without these friends Vietnam would have been much worse than it already was,
our friends made this waiting, bearable.
April 11, 1970, medicine men.
Many doctors assigned to the medical core in Vietnam
devote much of their very limited and precious off-time duty,
working with Vietnamese civilians, most medical assistance.
From the other side is grateful, appreciated, but there are exceptions.
My brother Charles, who was assigned to the 6th Comvalescent Center in Southern
Tukor, worked with many Vietnamese civilians in Camron, Village, and my car,
Village among others.
But three weeks after end, his tour of Doudin Vietnam,
a small group of Viet Kong sappers blew up his hospital,
killing and wounding 98 bed-ridden patients.
Another army doctor working a small village not far from Camron Bay
successfully saved the life of a young girl, 12 years old,
who had both of her hands blown off by a grenade.
The little girl's grandmother was also injured in the blast.
A short while later, the doctor learned that the young girl's injuries,
occurred while she and her grandmother, had been attempting to booby-trap
the doctor's own Jeep with this same grenade, hoping to kill him when he started his engine.
A third unarmed American medic spent much of his free time in a similar village,
attempting to fight an outbreak of cholera and typhoid.
One young Vietnamese boy was too sick to be saved when the medic arrived in the village,
but rumors circulated throughout the Hamlet that the American medic was responsible
for killing the boy with his poisonous medicine.
Consequently, the village allowed two Viet Kong snipers to ambush and kill the young medic
when he drove back into the village a few days later,
with another shipment of life-saving drugs.
Few medical personnel dared to enter this village after the episode,
and half the villagers later died as a result of cholera epidemic.
Yeah, this is, you know, it was really, last night I was actually reading an interview with David Hackworth
that I read it before, but I was reading it again, and one of the things he said was that
the goal, because we dropped, he's going through the numbers, and I'll do this.
Interview on the podcast, I'll bring it in, and, but he was saying he's talking about how much
bombs we dropped on Vietnam. So Vietnam's about the size of California,
and we dropped more bombs in Vietnam.
Then got dropped in all of Europe during World War II on both sides.
So both the allies and the axis all bombs put together during all of World War II
in all that area, there was more dropped into just Vietnam.
And what someone said was, you know, he's quoting a general that said,
hey, we're going to bomb them back into the Stone Age, and what he didn't realize is that they were already
wearing the Stone Age. These people are living their farmers. They're working, they're basically in the Stone Age.
And so that's, my point is that they're not going to understand this medical treatment,
and if someone comes in and starts manipulating their brains and saying, oh, that kid was killed by this poisonous medicine.
Hmm.
April 15th, 1970, a short short story. Once upon a time there was a politician who, all by himself,
blustered and stormed and committed half a million young men to risk their lives in war.
Some fat asked power hungry politician who, in all his potato-face ugliness,
had the gall to consider himself a statesman and a man of decision.
The American sheep went bah, bah, and the young boys died, and bulb knows lived happily ever after.
Kirkmeyer, Lee,
Kothrin, Daily, Rod Riggas,
Just names, just figures.
April 19th, 1970, officers and men.
American soldiers in Vietnam came from all walks of life and so did the officers.
Most of the officers I worked with in Vietnam, in Saigon, Camron, Notrang, were citizen soldiers like I was.
Graduates of ROTC or OCS.
Only Colonel S, Major T, and Captain D were West Point graduates.
Colonel S is discussed elsewhere in this book.
Captain D didn't like going along with anyone, and Major T was a good officer well liked and much respected.
One out of three ain't bad.
For six months, my superior officer was Major P from the 173rd Airborne,
and I couldn't have worked for a better man in route of the army.
He treated us all like human beings no matter what our rank was, and we were all fiercely loyal in return.
Hey, there's a novel idea.
That's a novel idea.
All these people that asked me, like, oh, I'm taking over leadership position.
What should I do?
Here's step one, treat your people like human beings no matter what their rank are.
And look, he says that people were fiercely loyal in return.
When Major P left, however, we became expendable to the greater glories of someone else.
The army, like any civilian counterpart, has its equal share of the good, the bad, and the ugly.
One of my closest friends in Vietnam was none of the above.
He was a Steve Dor officer, a Pentecostal minister's son, and Zorba, the Greek.
He treated his men as individuals, rankless, and unique.
They did their job with a minimum of hassle, and they loved him.
He was their counselor, their friend, and their equal.
When he was about to leave Vietnam, his men gave him a symbolic, christening, and beer, and threw him in the ocean.
He told them to treat each other just like you'd want the other dude to treat you.
The golden rule in a tub full of beer, an inner light forever branching outward.
In Vietnam, when most of us were plotting through the absurd in human procedures of the war, he alone remained a man of substance.
So again, it's like treat your people well.
April 27, 1970, a highway accident.
Yesterday, we saw the results of what happens when a small lamb breada, scuder bus, filled with 12 Vietnamese civilians,
hits a veet-cong-mind buried along the side of the main highway.
The mine was primarily an anti-personel device, used as the military abstractly explains it, their harass the civilian population.
There were a lot of mangled bodies lying there.
Until they were police-up, primarily older people, women and children, the elder sons and husbands had already been conscripted to take their chances on the conventional battlefield.
In America, a big highway accident or related disaster usually draws a huge morbid crowd to stare and gawk.
Yesterday, in Vietnam, no one seemed to notice.
April 30, 1970, the Koreans, the Koreans, fielded in excess of two cracked divisions during the Vietnam war.
The rock, that's Republic of Korea, the rock troops were greatly feared and respected by the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese alike.
They asked for and gave little quarter to the communists.
Once, when one of their troops was ambushed outside a small village in Northern Tukor, the Koreans hunted the sniper down, brought him back to the village,
strong them up on a tree and skinned him alive.
The Koreans bravery, devotion and ferocity as a fighting force was legendary in Vietnam.
During the Ted offensive of 1968, every major allied headquarters and military compound in all of Vietnam was attacked by the communists except one.
The VC and the North Vietnamese gave wide birth to the Koreans.
I did not know that, but that's legit.
They said, yeah, we're not going to attack the Korean compound.
We're going to leave it alone.
So, there is that speaks volumes.
That speaks volumes.
That's why, yeah, you got to carry a big stick.
I've got to carry a big stick, perhaps the Koreans.
Here's a little poem in memory of a friend killed in action.
Is it weakness for a strong man to be moved by inner touch?
Must he spurn a lonely blade of grass and dam the oceans roar?
Or must he look at sentimental beauty as a crutch and choose to play the game of pride by calling life a whole.
No.
I have seen the strongest man defend a withered rose and fall from grace because the people didn't understand.
They thought it was his weakness, they exploited, I suppose, and killing him in ignorance.
They trembled in his hand.
May 25, 1970, Kent State.
In the futility and rage over President Nixon's Cambodian invasion, the killing of four student demonstrators at Kent State University by the Ohio National Guard mystified many GIs and Vietnam.
We felt this outrage too, but we had a hard time comprehending how the press and the nation could make so much of an issue out of these four people.
We were losing friends and comrades in an average of 250 men killed each and every week.
It made us feel as unwilling participants that we were a subhuman species neglected and alone.
Forgotten pawns in a confused and God forsaken war.
And we were on both sides of the ocean.
Yeah, I mean, obviously growing up, you actually study, like when I went to history class in high school,
like we specifically learned about the Kent State massacre, which obviously is horrible, but can you imagine, so for these students could kill these student protesters, obviously never should have happened.
But can you imagine being a Vietnam in the whole country of America is up in arms about these four students being killed.
And every week there's 250 of your friends getting killed.
May 26, 1970, the real heroes, the medics and metavac personnel in Vietnam almost to a man were beautiful and very dedicated people,
braving the fiercest fire and most horrowing odds to comfort and evacuate the wounded and dying, military and civilian alike, often from both sides from the heat of battle.
In any war, the real heroes are those who try to maintain basic humanity, time and time again risking their own lives so that others might live.
In Vietnam, the medics and metavac people were such men.
May 28, 1970, anti-war protesters.
There were various reactions by Vietnam, GIs, to the anti-war protesters back home.
The bulk of the infantry were high school graduates who knew that college deferments kept most of the more affluent anti-war protesters out of the draft and thus out of the war.
To these GIs, Vietnam was viewed in terms of a deep gut reaction, a sort of misery-loves company affair.
I wish those goddamn protesters could be over here for one week and see what the VC did to my buddy. It changed their goddamn mind real quick.
That was he had that in quotes that wasn't him. That was him.
That was him explaining what the thoughts of the average infantry GIs was.
Back to the book, some of our contemporaries had chosen jail or candidate in Sweden. We had chosen Vietnam.
At least the anti-war protesters could show the world that we were all not supporting the president's actions, even at war.
On the other hand, we had to survive this war. Since the VC and the North Vietnamese had designs for killing us and we had designs on them, we were both de facto enemies.
Nevertheless, most Vietnam GIs and the anti-war protesters back home had something in common.
I love this, this right here is awesome. The frontline troops hated the war, and they hated the safer combat support personnel.
The combat support personnel hated the war and they hated the organizational general staff.
The staff personnel hated the war and they hated the troops back in Europe and the troops back home.
The troops back home hated the war and they hated the placid non-carrying American civilians.
The American civilians supported the war at the time and they hated the anti-war protesters.
And the anti-war protesters hated the war and they hated the government.
Therefore, the protesters and the soldiers that like had one important thing in common, we both hated the war.
That's a crazy thing to think about that whole thing.
It's just like, it's, ah, you could play those kind of circular games with our political system all day long right now.
Ridiculous.
This overall feeling perhaps can only be described by a related story as the American troop withdrawals in Vietnam began
An armored outfit, the two-one calf pulled into Camron Bay for its long-awaited departure home.
Over four years, the two-one calf had performed a combat and combat support role in and around fan rang and fan jet.
They had eaten dust and mud, been shot at, mordered, and booby-trap throughout their tour, and now they were going home.
To honor these brave and gallant men, General D of the Camron Support Command decided to give them a fitting welcome home of mid-banners, bands, and flags.
General D himself was on the reviewing stand.
And just as the overly tired men of the two-one calf rumbled by in their tanks and armored personnel carriers, the general proudly saluted them.
The first man in the lead tank, not knowing it was a general saluting him, or just not carrying,
returned the general snappy salute in the only way possible.
He gave him the finger.
June 6, 1970, coming home.
Coming home, we had to go through American customs, sort of like weary tourists back from a year-long overseas job to the enchanted east.
Did we have anything to declare?
Not much.
Most of our prized PX positions, possessions were shipped home.
Some having been ripped off by certain civilian steve doors, but along the coast.
So now he is...
He's home June 7, 1974, Lewis Washington.
A big monster idiot tube welcomed us back to the world.
A third-rate TV comedy in the sweaty lounge with grotesque absurd commercials, screaming and clawing at their days to viewers with a never-ending by me, fervor.
I'm sorry, I said as I turned the monster off, I'm just not ready for all this yet.
I know what you mean, another voice said, spending a whole year overseas fighting to defend all this crap.
So there you go, the TV, the TV, the monster clawing at its viewers.
Bye, me, bye, me, you.
May 5, 1971, a March and San Francisco.
There was a huge anti-war protest march in San Francisco this week, over 700,000 people, walked down Giri Street.
And in memory of some friends, we found ourselves in front of a long, large contingent of old timers from the Lincoln Brigade, and directly behind a large group of businessmen against the war.
There were students in veterans housewives with baby prams, burly steve doors and electricians, grandmothers and grandchildren, policemen and hippies, minorities and majorities, all Americans peacefully asserting their constitutional right of free speech and assembly.
After the speeches in Golden Gate Park, one badly crippled veteran in a wheelchair had just enough strength to hurl some hard-were, one combat medals into the field, a bronze star medal,
and two purple hearts.
Nobody cared about us when they sent us over there, he said, and nobody cares about us now.
And that kind of closes out the portion of the book that I want to cover, although I do want to actually finish it with a
what he finishes or how he finishes the book and he finishes the book, Peter and Swisher finishes the book with a quote from someone else.
And that's how he finishes the book, so I want to read that.
And it says to close out the book, it's called Another Time Another Place.
This morning, January 21st, another picture of war was the worst I have ever seen.
It is just east of where the engineers have established a fairy crossing across the river, at a point where the river first bends toward the road.
Until they were buried, their lay, what was left of eight or ten British soldiers.
Perhaps one of their mortars was hit as some were burned, and there had been a heavy explosion, but no shell crater was seen nearby.
Of two men, only the lower half remained.
Another two were each lacking a head, and another had a leg off at the hip.
All had been horribly injured.
A Christmas card lay on the ground, bearing the words in a child's hand writing to the best daddy in the world.
And those words were written by somebody by the name of Captain George Nash, Royal Artillery, Italy, 1944.
And if you put this together, Peter and Swisher, the end in his name, stands for Nash.
Because Captain George Nash was Peter Swisher's biological father, who I talked about in the beginning, who was killed after the war as he came home from Italy.
Another place, another time.
You know, life in many ways, in so many different ways, we are not going to understand it.
It's incomprehensible.
I mean, when you get this Christmas card laying on the ground amongst these savagely wounded soldiers, and that this Christmas card says, in little kids writing to the best daddy in the world.
I don't understand that.
That is, no, why the world can be such a horrific place.
And how life can be so tragic, but that is the way it is.
And some of the things that happen in the world, they just happen in what we cannot control them.
But at the same time, there are so many things in the world that we do control.
And all of us, all of us, we all can somehow, in some way, relieve, or we can attenuate some of that tragedy.
We don't need to spur an alonely blade of grass or damn the oceans roar.
We don't need to do that.
We can make someone's life a little bit better.
We can make ourselves a little bit better, and in doing so, we can make the world, even just a small part of the world a little bit better.
And Peter Swisher, he actually did survive Vietnam, and he went on to become a lawyer, and then he became a professor of law at the University of Richmond.
And he was married for 37 years and raised a daughter, and any died June 15th, 2016.
A cancer, a cancer called multiple Myeloma, which if you don't know what that is, that's one of the forms of cancer that's connected to, to Agent Orange, which is the chemical that we used in Vietnam to kill the foliage.
So the enemy could not admit.
And that's the cancer that killed Peter Nash, Swisher.
But luckily his voice and his memories live on with us through his writing and through his stories.
And I think through these stories, he left the world a little bit of a better place.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So echo.
Maybe you could let me decompress a little bit, and maybe tell us how we can help us.
Make the world a better place.
That sounds like a big deal.
But is it really that big of a deal?
Well, I'm not talking about you personally got to individually go out and change the whole world.
Right.
And the way that everyone can see right now.
I had a conversation with who was I talking to.
Someone was asking me, it might have been Pete.
It might have been Pete up at Origin, might have been Peter Roberts.
It might have been him, but somebody was asking me, you know,
about, you know, coming up in the sealed teams and when I decided to become an officer.
And I'm going to set this before on here, I don't know, but you know, I had a platoon commander that was a prioriless a guy and he was awesome.
And we all loved him.
And when you're in a sealed platoon, that's the whole world.
Yes.
That's the whole world.
And we had this awesome officer.
This is the time we had a mute, and all that.
And we got rid of our bad officer, we got this good officer came in and just made our lives awesome.
Our lives were awesome.
And so I said to myself, the back of my mind subconsciously kind of remotely conscious.
I don't know, but I realized that this guy made our lives awesome.
He made our world awesome.
And I said to myself, somewhere in the back, a little barely formed human brain of mine.
I said to myself, you know what?
Some day, this guy has made the our lives for us,
16 guys in this sial platoon, our lives are awesome now.
And some day, I'm going to try and make life good for 16 guys in a sial platoon.
That was my goal.
And for that world.
So when I say, hey, make the world a better place,
then what can you, who can you make the world a better place for?
Because you actually can't, you actually can't.
Well, yeah, whether it's some kid down the street,
whether it's somebody that needs help out there,
whether it's your own kid, how can you make the world a better place?
Because you can, what can you do to make it a little bit better?
You know what it starts with making yourself a little bit better?
Get yourself stable.
I'll tell you that.
It's like the like the oxygen mask that drop down in the aircraft.
You got to get yourself square to a first.
You want to get yourself square to a way?
I had somebody asked me the other day, like I'm bored.
What should I do?
And I was like, oh, if you're bored, that means you got room.
You got capacity.
You can go help people.
And you know how they say, like helping others is like the ultimate like reward.
You know, people they say that.
I think even before you square yourself away,
it's harder to make that connection, I think.
Yes, because you're still struggling yourself.
Yeah, it's kind of like a, when you plant the seed,
it's like the seed got to grow into a thing above ground first.
And yeah, sort of sort of kind of way.
But the more square it away, like you get,
not only the more capable you are of helping others more effectively,
but the more you can make that connection.
Like, oh, this reward is way better than when I achieve my sting.
Right?
You know, that's why a lot of people like if they really love what they do.
I'm not saying everybody, but a lot of people with a love what they do,
but they're kind of like out of the game, they'll teach others how to do it.
It's just like a natural progression.
That is a natural possession that's true.
Look at your jitz who, you become a world champion in your jitz who,
that's great.
But then eventually a lot of those guys become instructors and they have teams.
And that's what they want to do is spread the word.
Oh, yeah.
And like you see these guys who had like big big-tem careers and stuff.
I don't know, I love one they're teaching and you see all happy they are teaching others.
Like Bob Blue, and I'll see if the random example, but he popped in my head.
Because I've been to his class when he's teaching the kids.
That's everything, man.
I'm like, this guy's like really engaged with this.
You know, I'll say right now, my last.
And I knew I was, like my last few years in the Navy,
where I was running the training and I was really teaching all the time.
Like that was so good for me.
I mean, it was so gratifying.
Yeah.
That's it.
Can I get to see the light?
I get to see people learn.
I get to see people.
I got to make the world good for someone.
Yeah.
You know, these these three guys that figure someone's a gamma and you're, you're a leader.
And that's, that's good stuff.
So yeah, when I talk about that sounds so, uh, tried.
You make the world a better place.
Yeah.
So how could I say that better?
Hey, man.
Fix something helps just fix something around you.
Yeah.
Make your world a better place.
And that's what I should say.
Make your world.
Or make someone else's world.
Just make it a little bit better.
Yeah.
You have that capability, believe it or not.
And regardless of that, who that someone is, that someone, that someone is you too.
By the way, actually you first.
Or could just be you.
Yeah.
Because if you make here, it's like if you have a neighborhood, right?
And the neighborhood, I don't know how they, you know how they, you know how they, you know how they got your long and you clean up your thing and you get that square in a way.
It's helping everyone.
Let's say there's 10 houses in a neighborhood, small neighborhood, whatever.
10 houses.
You cut your lawn.
You do your hedges.
You paint your house.
Make sure there's no trash in the yard or whatever.
You've improved that whole neighborhood by one tenth.
You're alone.
Let alone everybody else.
Don't even think about anybody else.
One tenth.
It's a lot.
Same.
So play that concept.
There you go.
That's what you do.
Boom.
There you go.
And like it.
So staying on the path.
That is help us help us.
That's what I said actually.
Help us.
Can you tell us how that can you help us help us?
Yeah.
You see what I'm saying?
Yes.
I do.
So yes.
Be happy to.
So first thing obviously when we talk about you just do not obviously but we're going to talk about
you just.
I think it is actually obviously this point.
Yes.
It is.
You know many people tweet me a day or message me that they took their first
you just to class.
How many?
A lot.
I do know how for you people means like three sometimes.
Yeah.
We're like well people been asking for whatever.
Sure.
But sometimes that really means three people.
No I'm talking on a daily.
Daily.
Daited basis.
Sure.
I would say.
I don't know.
Maybe three to five people a day.
A day daily.
That's a lot.
Yeah.
Maybe it's over exaggerated in my head though.
You know what?
I don't think so because every single time I go on to dinner which is pretty much every day.
Pretty much.
There's at least one person in.
You know the alerts right?
Yeah.
That I'm like copied in or whatever.
It'll say got me first to just class or got beat up.
Yeah.
So and then this is every single time.
I literally cannot remember.
See so it's a lot.
People are getting on the GJ2 train.
Yeah.
For sure.
Yes.
So it's kind of obvious that we're going to talk about GJ2 a little bit.
You know what else is good?
Very few people say.
I tried GJ2.
I just don't like it.
That's very.
I've actually I can only think of off the top of my head one individual out of all those people.
That like went back and forth with me and it was just like look I do not like this.
I think this is the guy that I said look you need to train until you submit someone.
Yeah.
Then you can stop.
If you can submit someone you're like okay I don't like this.
Yeah.
This is pretty hard to understand.
And it's truly not.
It's really not for you.
Yeah.
You tap someone out.
Then.
Yeah.
I did it's not for you.
But I bet you even that person once they got that.
Mark.
Yeah.
It's just like this.
It's.
It's for me.
Yeah.
I would that.
My money would be on that scenario.
So you felt a little bit of claustrophobia, right?
In my life I know you're over it.
But it could could could could.
Could that alone stop someone from wanting to train to to because I had one guy and a
seal put it with me that he would get.
that he would get so, a coupside train with everyone,
and when I would train with him,
he would get so freaked out.
Like he would start like,
like getting actually mad at me.
You know,
you know, that.
And of course, what did I do?
Ah,
ah,
pull the jacco.
Yeah, I would decide controlled.
This smash,
closes I could.
Yeah.
Squeeze, just smash.
Try and, you know what though?
Try to help us,
try to make us world a better place.
You're getting over that.
Exposure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exposure.
Situation.
Yes, though.
The answer is yes.
I think that because claustrophobia is like,
like, for real claustrophobia,
not just like,
why am I uncomfortable with that?
But like, if you have a fur ill claustrophobia
and it's a spectrum,
it's getting some people by the worse than others.
But yeah, if they have,
somebody on the hard core claustrophobia spectrum.
And then they got introduced to it early on.
And someone that was like a smasher, right?
Yeah.
Because you wouldn't feel claustrophobia.
If you were going with someone that's got like an open butterfly,
slash,
lasto guard.
Yeah, like, well, yes.
You're not feeling very claustrophobia.
You might think, so it's called that triangle.
Then something you freaking out with that.
Yeah, that building tap and you're out.
The place where you really feel claustrophobia
is cross side or mountain.
Or yeah.
So, and it's not even necessarily a smasher, per se.
Because you can be mounted just normal mount,
not smashing pressure, whatever just normal mount.
Because it's not like it's,
because claustrophobia is psychological.
But it's not like a physical thing, primer.
I mean, there's physical elements for sure.
It has to be, but if you just feel like you can't get out
or you can't breathe or, you know,
it's like, that's the feeling.
But so like a lot of times, even when I was working through mine,
and you'd be like smashing me all hard,
I'd be like, right, you're wasting your energy.
The smashing doesn't do it.
When we're rolling in, it's quiet,
especially when you're like, oh, when I know you're doing it
on purpose, it helps.
It helps me because it seems like a game.
Like you're just messing with me now.
So it's like, but if it's serious,
if we're just rolling, we're not saying anything.
And it's like, now I'm faced with either staying in this position
right now forever, because I can't get out.
I can't get out of your side, control right now.
Like history has proven to be kind of thing in my brain.
You still either, I suck it up indefinitely,
or I tap out, both of those to me are death,
like to tap out because you're tired or claustrophobia.
Like that's worse than tapping out from a submission.
So that's why a lot of times you would claustrophobia
to me into giving me, giving you my arm or something like that.
And then I'd have to tap out.
But that's how it went, then.
So it was just, I think you tap two times
from just straight claustrophobia,
because you didn't freaking take this submission
on this giving you.
And that's like terrible.
And I remember, I was about to be let down
at myself as you were saying all this.
I was kind of disappointed myself that I didn't identify that,
that there was a further torture I could have been doing to you,
but it looks like sometimes I did figure it out.
Yeah.
You did. So I remember here, I remember one time,
not to go too deep into this,
because I want to tell you a lot about origin.
So there's this one time where I forget if I rolled with you
like that day or the day it was really recently
I rolled with you.
And I was feeling claustrophobia and, you know,
I gave you my arm and then you took him out.
I was like, yes, like I was happy that he tapped me out
and let me out of there,
because it's like it's really bad when you feel that.
So the next day I see you rolling with Dean and Dean gets you
in double snowing.
And you guys were rolling hard for a long time
and I'm like, Tang these guys are going hard.
I would be and I'm kind of empathizing me
and when you put yourself in the other person's situation.
So I'm like, hey, thinking to myself,
man, these guys are going hard for a long time.
I would be gasping right now.
And then Dean was like, he was kind of getting the better.
You got out.
I was like, I'm feeling for Jocca right now,
because I've been in that scenario where it's like we're going hard
and then I wind up in Mount, I'd be like, man,
I'm feeling like, like, breath in my, just by watching.
And then he gets you in double snowing.
I'm like, I was getting like microwave anxiety.
From the double snowing until that Dean is doing on you.
Because that's claustrophobia right there.
I like this.
And I like you can't do it.
You can't move.
It was my reaction.
It's probably just powered through it, right?
Like you didn't even, I don't think he even tapped you.
But he was like that for a long time.
And I was like, I was like, this guy's a different,
another level of savid.
And I'm not saying necessarily with the grappling.
I mean, that was sort of like a,
you know, that was the side thing.
Just the fact that you can endure what I just witnessed
you endure compared to my own shit.
That was a man.
Nonetheless, man, so then when I'm in the next day,
what do you mean, was there a follow on where I rolled
with your getters at the story?
No, no, no, no.
What I was comparing it to what was helping me really get into your
shoes is because I was remembering, it could have been that same day
that we rolled.
And I just gave into the classroom for me.
Like you was like, I had an issue.
I was like in terrible shape, I would go train like twice a week,
maybe, you know, and not, it is just a bad scenario.
But nonetheless, yes, the answer is yes.
If someone gets into duty to and they have a claustrophobic
pre-existing condition.
Yeah, and then they get into the claustrophobia situation
early on, like the first or second day or something.
Yeah, I could see how they wouldn't want to go back.
I don't know.
But here's a good thing about that.
If you do duty to and reap the payoffs of duty to,
and then you get into claustrophobic situation,
you're more worried about, like, how can I overcome the claustrophobia?
More so than, hey, duty to produces too much claustrophobia for me.
Yeah, because you know the benefits and you feel like the payoff
of the duty to weigh more than you care about or fear claustrophobia.
That's my analysis anyway.
So speaking of duty to.
Yeah, you're going to need a geek.
So you get an origin geek.
That's it straight up.
There it is.
Answered you question.
Because planning people, planning people, still ask me what
get you get.
Yeah.
Or you know why it's because people start at podcast one.
And I do.
And so they're, well, they get them by podcast.
You know, I was asking people at the camp.
I was asking people what broke you.
Like, because people get meaning they're listening to the podcast.
And they're like, well, they're talking about the future.
Now, well, they're talking about.
But then they'll be like, you, you, when you were talking on podcast, 23, you
are like, there's nothing else I can.
I was like, okay, I'm trying to say.
So there's certain podcasts that people got out of school.
And I'm just going to do this.
Yeah.
And I think you posted something on social media the other day.
That said that you, if you're a white belt, you already have achieved more than 99
percent of people in the world.
Yeah.
Because how many people, less than 1% of the people in the world, due to
get you for sure.
Yeah.
For sure.
Yeah, fully.
And yeah, I reposted.
I retweeted it from Joey Sylvester.
And I think he even retweeted it from somebody.
Because so true.
And the reason I reposted it is, of course, for new people coming in.
But that's a good reminder.
It was a good reminder for me.
For every, because I think it's a good reminder for everybody because, you know, that
feeling like, you know, when people are, man, I, I, I, for everybody in everything, not
just due to it.
Because there's other stuff that you should be doing that you might not be doing.
Yeah.
Because you're like, oh, well, I don't want to cross the line or I don't want to take
the first step.
Yeah.
You know, I don't want to take the first step.
Take the first step is always big.
Yeah.
But even like taking, so yeah, again, there's two elements to that.
Taking the first step, meaning if you're not in digits and you take the first step to go
two digits, right?
There's that.
And then to me, it was like, when you get your ass kicked, you know, like, even even
you, how you say, like, sometimes I'll just get my ass kicked some day or
sure.
Like, and people will no matter what level they are, they'll be like, oh, man, you
know, they'll say, oh, man, I got my ass kicked, but I'm ready, you know, and
I'm coming back and I liked it and all this stuff.
And then they'll ask when, when do I not feel so awkward?
And when do I not feel like I don't know what I'm doing?
I'm like, well, you, it all, you always feel like that.
You just feel like that little bit less every, every year, whatever.
And so, and sometimes you can be at a high level and feel like that more often than
not still, you know, because it just did depends on training partners, all that stuff.
So that I thought that that was a really good reminder is like being there.
It's like super important.
Yeah.
And it's like really beneficial.
It is.
And also, to take the first step, if you're out there, let this be the podcast.
Number 143 that you said, you know what, man, I've heard enough talk about this.
I'm going to go get some.
Yeah.
Today is the day.
It's plenty of digits, you schools out there.
Yeah.
And most of them are good.
You know, which one makes or not, which one, but when?
This is what makes me like one, I just go train right now.
Is anytime you go into one of your spills about how it's a superpower.
It's absolutely true.
That's what I was telling Cole.
I like when we were waiting earlier today, my cousin called.
He, um, how?
When you start a jiu-jitsu, like you could do jiu-jitsu for one year and right then at that point,
you can beat up everyone else who doesn't do jiu-jitsu.
Like in a just an in a general way, in a jiu-jitsu.
You know, like that.
You're roughly speaking.
Yeah, roughly speaking.
You can narrow their exceptions for sure.
But, you know, like there's not many things in the world that are like that or like that.
Yeah.
No, it's a superpower.
So every time I listen to you say, that kind of thing and do your little explanation,
that's like, yeah, man, that's true.
Because it kind of reputes it into it.
Yeah, when people bring their kids in here, I tell them, I was telling this family, that's
the other day.
I said, I said, I truly believe that jiu-jitsu is the best thing you can give your kid.
Including love.
I can let the jiu-jitsu.
So yeah, I think it's very important.
So you can get your keys for more jiu-jitsu.
Or give me a dot com.
Made in Maine.
That's why it's ordered in Maine.com.
And they're made there.
And they're made specifically for jiu-jitsu.
The weave is for jiu-jitsu.
The fabric is for jiu-jitsu.
The cut is for jiu-jitsu.
Made by people that do jiu-jitsu, black belts in jiu-jitsu, designed by people that train.
People that are black belts, dedeko, Peter Roberts in there with scissors cutting these.
Yeah, sure scissors.
Well, that was lasers.
Yeah, I haven't really seen any scissors, but I've seen those little witty comb, little
soft thing.
Yeah.
No, but when you make the original pattern, do you got to use scissors?
No.
I don't know.
That can't stop.
Yeah, I know now though.
I know that's good.
So yeah, scissors saw all that stuff.
All made in America.
If you train in nogie, you get the rash guards.
A rash guards, 100%.
And they're also made here in America, which is a big deal.
And if you're doing other exercise outside of jiu-jitsu, you've got joggers if you're
jogging, or if you're just cruising, whatever, and hoodies, and sure it's what not.
A peril.
Parallel.
Orgene Maine.com.
All made in America, by the way.
Also supplements.
Jockel supplements.
Yeah.
Now people have been asking me, joint warfare or...
Grilloio.
Good question, by the way.
It's a good question.
I think Brian, I asked him the same question, because I have a hard time answering it.
The reason I have a hard time answering is because I do both all the time, and I'm not
stopping anyone from as an experiment.
I'm not doing that.
It's not worth it.
He said, and I kind of agree with this, it makes sense.
If you are doing preventative, Criolloio, if you're doing heal, joint warfare, good way
to put it.
My recommendation kind of is like a du-bulf.
Yeah.
Take them both.
But that sounds like a good idea.
So if you have, if you're joints, like just started bothering you, or you got the elbows
bothering you, your shoulders bothering you, I think shoulders for me is the one that I always
notice.
Yeah.
Then if it's hurt, get on.
Get on some joint warfare.
Yeah.
That's good.
And I say both because the way I would see it and put it, and this is just kind of the way
I say it, where it's like an 80-20.
You know, it's not like, oh, joint warfare is 100% for healing up and recovering.
You know, I actually don't think that at all.
But yeah, I just, and the other thing, how well, I don't know.
Yeah.
And he said, I'm putting it out there, I'm not, I would, yeah.
I would, yeah.
I obviously recommend both.
But you know, if somebody has to beat that cost a lot of money, and some people
like, you know what, I can only afford one.
Cool.
Take, take, take, take.
Kiloil, because that's all encompassing health, right?
Whereas joints, yeah, when your joints start getting jacked up a little bit.
Which, by the way, if you're doing Gigi-two, you're going to feel it.
You're going to feel Gigi-two.
Fuf, Gigi-two is not a sport that you don't feel.
Yeah.
feel you feel it. Yes, true, but they're both good 100%. And then you got
a mulk. So I'm I'm I'm envisioning a world one day because I was in the
traveling yesterday horrible and man I got like a chocolate milk like a regular
chocolate milk which is just awful crap. And it doesn't even taste as good.
No, doesn't taste. You got used to the mulk. That's what it was. But still
objectively, it does not taste as good. And it's unhealthy. So one day, one day, in this
world, you'll be able to go to the little shop in the airport, the the 7
11 and you'll just be able to walk and they'll have a little counter for mulk.
They'll have a little mulk situation. They will. Because how can they not do that?
I'm convention. Right? No, I mean, eventually you fast forward. I don't know if
it's going to take two years or four years, but eventually so many people are going to
demand it. It's going to be more restaurants. There's going to be different flavors.
You're just going to go under like little mulk bars. They won't even have food.
They'll just have mulk. Mulk, yeah, you know how they have to kill the bars.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, same thing. But mulk, but different mulk on top. Yeah, that sounds like a
good idea. You know, I have that dream too, you know, and until then, yeah, you
can get it or do you need to come? Also discipline too. If you want to get your mind right,
you know, that expression. Get your mind right. Yeah. Not to say your mind is not right. I'm saying
you don't even even even the most fired up I've ever heard a guy tell me about getting his mind right.
I was up at your semedy and this guy, I was coming out from a hike from a pretty good
hike a couple days out in the boat. And there was a guy and he was using the middle of the river
like sitting on the rock just to calm river, not like you know, he's sitting on the rock. And we
stopped there. I think we jumped in and you know, he saw me and he was all, you know, I could tell
he was in the game. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, he comes over and he was like, I said, man, you know,
he said, oh man, I lost your podcast bro, we were listening to all the news with one of his
news. We were listening all the way up here. We just drove six hours to get up here. We just
into whatever it was of 48 and 49 back to back. You know, I was a man that's awesome. I was like, what
do you do in up here? You climb in? You guys gonna go hiking? He goes, no man, I just came up here to get my
mind right and I was like, you don't even know what that means. Did it? Yeah, well, I guess I do know what
it means. I kind of go up there and get your mind right. Yeah, take it. And if you want supplementation
for doing that discipline boom, pre-mission mind, your mind literally will get your mind right.
Yeah, pre-mission. Get your mind right. That's the origin main.com. Yeah, that's where you get it.
Also, you're going to support yourself. You want to represent Jaco as a store. It's called
JacoStore. So you go to JacoStore.com. So you can represent huge ten. Huge ten,
represent a lot of people representing and this is one of those things. So basically, this is where you
get shirts and in hoodies and hats, rash guards, trucker hats, by the way, I don't have to get the
flex if you don't have, if you don't want to. If you don't have for for keeping it old school,
like what you said to do a broom. I'm sure. I think I've worn trucker hats before on a real basis.
I never saw you to hat until like three minutes ago when you put one on it's momentarily
and I looked up and I just got disturbed. Yeah, well, it's been literally like like 15 years before
since I've and your head doesn't get a beat down by the sun. Well, I'm very brown. Yeah. And I'm from
quite some, I think I'm used to that one. Yeah. But you actually know, dance your question?
Yeah, sometimes if I stay in the sun for a long time, do you want to have no pull on? Maybe
straw hat. Something. Coconut, coconut leaf. Oh, yeah. Something we used to do.
Nonetheless, when you're representing JacoStore, when I see people representing in the wild,
who made that up in the wild without you said that or something? I think someone else said that.
I don't know, but I definitely, I think I might have said it because I think the first,
no, I did say it because I remember I hadn't seen one in the wild. Right. And that's something.
Yeah, I've been like, I never saw a trooper in the wild and they eventually I did it. And now
man, I was in the airport yesterday. I saw like seven people. They weren't wearing shirts,
but they were all coming up and being like, hey, what's up? So people were fired up.
You know, wild. Yeah. But yeah, good. Go there, get something. You know, if you want to
represent and represent in the wild, boom, and it's a plenty of clothes for you to. Where's that? Anyway,
yeah, JacoStore, I made a new discipline equals freedom shirt. Yes. It's, it's a little bit cooler in my opinion.
Well, you know, it's one of these things. That might be biased because I sort of,
you know, some influence that one. No one. Yeah. Yeah. It was good. You did. You, when you,
when I told you, hey, make equals smaller. Yeah. And I could see in your mind,
you were thinking it's off balance, off balance physically, physically, letters. Yeah. And then I gave you
the idea of hey, know you put two lines. It's an equal sign. There's layers here. You got all
it's, it was like a done deal in your mind. It's, it's Nirvana had been achieved from new t-shirts.
Well, you did click because, and I saw why you, one of the equals small. Yeah, because that's not
because they're things. Yeah. This one. This one. This one. Nonetheless,
he went jocostory.com. You want to represent the main thing to represent. Yeah. Not the equals. Well,
equals is, it's, it's all equal. I'll tell you that it's not the main thing. Yeah. All right. There you go.
So, jocostory. That problem, not that it was a problem. But, you know, he being, being influenced
with his improvement. Yeah. Somebody out there's like, no, I like the equals being bigger.
Echo shirt was better. Equality. Boom. Yeah. Very, equality. Like the, like the, like the
freedom that like the freedom does it, as a, as a discipline. Yeah. And the versatility was kind of the
deal. That's the deal. And I did it. They're going to have to keep in their old school shirt. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Representing. Get another way. Yeah. Whatever, man. All good. All good. Also,
good way to stay on the path. The current path is to subscribe to this podcast if you have not already.
That includes YouTube. So, that's the video version. So, yeah. If you're on the podcast,
platforms, apps, whatever, you listen to your podcast, man, subscribe. Leave a review if you feel
like it. And also don't forget about the Warrior Kid podcast, which we just released 17 and 18
all at the same time. And I apologize that those took a little while to get out. And my, when I
came down from my garage gym this morning, got done with the, uh, some, so I squatted today. And I haven't
been able to squat heavy. I'm not, not like, no, not heavy. Actually, let's straight up. Not heavy.
Because I have, I had back to back, tweak, knee, or tweak back, and then tweak knee. So, I just haven't
been able to get me to the end of the game. And today's where I'm, man, I couldn't believe squatting
is hard. Yes. Like if you're not used to it, which I'm not right now. And I, and believe me,
during the, even when my back was tweaked in my knee was tweaked, I'm still doing pistols. I'm still
doing box jumps. I'm still doing burpees and lunges and even a little kettlebell like type,
little, you know, movements. So it's not like my legs are just sitting there at your feet on a couch.
No, they're still in the game over here. But, man, that I just racked up. You asked me what
heavy. No, I did 225. I did like a few sets of 225. And I was like, and I was doing some stuff in between,
but still, I couldn't believe that. Yeah. So my point is, if you can squat squat, yeah, if you can
squat, get squat, get it on, because that just makes you stronger. It's tougher. You do have that.
It might even make you smarter as far as I can. So, from, no, I read, actually,
I think about it. I read something about the, the, the neurotropic release that happens when you
squat, you know, body gets better. Well, that's exercise in resistance exercise in, you know,
actually a lot of kind of exercises in general. Yeah. Kind of resquadding your using like a lot of
it does more. It's true. It ups your testosterone too. There you go. Because, and here's why basically,
because it's a huge muscle group. That's why. Oh, yeah. So, and it's not just one muscle group,
because when you're squatting, you're actually using, I think when you're squatting, you're using so many
muscles. Much. Yeah. Makes you kind of core stabilizers. And that's not to mention the biggest muscles in
your body. And with basically all your big muscles, all of them, not just one big one and then
a little bit of small ones. Like, you know, most of your body, that's kind of how it is. You know,
you're using your, your shoulders. And then you're trying to have a little bit of your chest.
Right. So, tell the other day that the condos, the condos. Yeah. That's what I was going to do.
Yeah. That's anything else I go. Okay. Right. Right. Right. There you go. Yeah. Get some.
Everyone should have. If you're, if you have a hotel, if you're a hotel owner, get some
condos in there. Get some condos. You don't even have to get. You can get, because they're
normally stop at 50s. If you get, let's just say 50s. If you just get a set of 70s and a set of
condos, we'll be good. Yeah. We'll be good worldwide. Yeah. The world will be happy. Yeah. You'll be
especially happy because I know you liked them. You were saying, we're all fired up the other day
talking about dumbbells. Yeah. Do you like them? Well, because it's a fun exercise. There's more
to it than just getting under the bench, for example, and pushing the bench. You know, it's,
I mean, there's more a little bit more to bench than that when you get into it. But
dumbbells, like you got it. Okay. You got to pick those guys up. One in each hand. Then you got to
balance them on your knees and then you got to get them up there into position. That's right. There's
a whole thing. Exactly. And that's not to mention the strength you got to have to push them. So,
you know, when you get kind of good at them and you do them a lot, it does become kind of fun.
Jack, there you go. Boom. Nonetheless, I don't know how we started talking about dumbbells. Well,
Jocco squatting is laser sore, all this stuff. And then, oh yeah, and then warrior kid podcast,
how did that lead to it? I don't know. But you know, every, that's how you look at it. Because when I came home,
oh yeah, because, oh, this was going to say my wife was listening to warrior kid podcast this
morning when I came down from the, from the gym. And she was all smiles. And she said,
well, this story is very good. Darling. So, that's a little uncle Jake story here, you know? And she
starts naming the people. She said, oh, is this this person? Because the stories that Uncle Jake
tells, there's, they're not, they're not, uh, what's they're not nonfiction stories, right? Like,
but there's the basis. The story comes by. Yeah, that's what is it based on the true story?
Well, there's based and then there's inspired by true events. That's like, they're probably,
they're, well, which one is the less true inspired by true events? So, I say they're inspired by
inspired by true events. But they're not, they're not based on, although the one that just came out,
me being out in a rowboat in the middle of a lake and the horse fall through the orlocks. That happened.
That's, I guess what I had no life jacket. Is that smart? No. So kids got to learn about that.
I got to learn about that. He prepared. Yeah. Don't, don't take those shortcuts.
agree. Anyways, that's the warrior kid podcast. Good. You can you can listen to those. And you
talked about YouTube. Yeah. If you're on the YouTube channel, echo as put puts out,
he puts out videos and they're enhanced. We'll say. Yeah, they're enhanced. Also, just a regular
video version of the podcast and little excerpts that are not enhanced. They're just chopped up. Yeah,
for consumption. I think we should have more of those too. By the way. Yeah, I put one up today.
I'll put more. We'll do that every day. I think. That'd be good. Right. Appropriate. Let's say appropriate.
Yeah, you might have to edit it a more. The one I think, the one, it was the one you just put
up today, like 10 minutes or 11 minutes long. I forget too long. It was how to stay in shape when you travel.
Yeah. So it should be like this. How to stay in shape when you travel. Do burpees in your hotel room.
Get some. I think people need more information. No, no, no.
Yeah. Also, hey, warrior kids, speaking of warrior kids, get the go to Irish Oaks Ranch.com. We got
young aide in the warrior kid and he's making soap. He's got his own business. You've got his own business.
I think he just turned 13 and what a couple months ago. And he's got his own business. He's got income.
He's got expenses. He's got production. He's got a production line. And that how legit is that?
Very legit. And it's not like hey, I dig it man. When you sell lemonade, we sell bananas. When I was little,
we did we go in the back. Oh yeah. Big some bananas. And we go on the side of the road. We stop every
car. It's a small road. It's not the freeway. And I think we stop every car. We say we got bananas.
$1 for one banana, which I know is kind of expensive. But one dollar for one banana or $5 for a banana,
a bag of bananas for I think there's like, I don't know, eight or 10 bananas in there. So you know,
the whole deal. Yep. We'll make somebody. I dig it. But let's face it. You can give bananas literally on the
side of the road anyway. So they're like, all right, we'll buy them. Yeah, they're just being cool. Yeah,
they're being cool. But it might be my little daughter. She'd be out in front of my house selling a piece of
rock selling like, you know, selling all kinds of people buy it. She cute. Yeah. She's cute. They go, oh yeah.
Here you go. Good. What did you like to buy a rock? So we're going to come from over there in the dirt.
Okay. Yeah. We'll give you $3 for a young lady. Thank you. Exactly. So that's what you pulled with the
bananas. Yeah. More or less. I mean, maybe a little bit more value than a rock. But it's still. Yes,
I talked about it. But you go over here. Irish Oak's Ranch. This soap is like legit. So yeah, yeah,
for sure. It's not like a novel to you. So it's like, it's like furl that you used in the literature.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. And it's a kid making it. Yeah. That's that's the impressive part.
These are all. And he's making it from goat milk. So it's not like he's making his porn like some
he's milking a goat. Right. He's milking his goat. Yeah. Milk to make the soap. This is a whole thing.
Yeah. It's not like he's going to be internet to the make a silk dot com. And then they put
in they send you the ingredients and then you pour them into a thing and you got soap. No, he's milking
it go. By the way, he's raising the goat. The goat doesn't just like, there's not a lie. It's not a
mechanical goat. It's a living goat. That's in America. The live. I mean in America. Yeah, absolutely.
So yeah, it goes deep. I should just ranch the dot com. Okay. Some stay clean. You also got psychological
warfare. If you need a little, little get some, you can throw that. Well, you get it for your
alarm clock. If you need it for your alarm clock, if you need it, if you have a little trouble getting
up out of the bed in the morning, use it for your alarm clock. But give your significant other,
most likely your wife, give her heads up that there's going to be a random dude in the bedroom in
the morning talking to you. So doesn't surprise her and scare her and make her hate you. That's
psychological warfare iTunes, Google play. We're coming out with a second one. We're going to try
to try and get that done by Christmas. Can we have done by Christmas? You think I think so. Yeah. Okay. Cool.
We're doing shopping. Cumpulsive shopping. Somebody wants smoky. How many people we can do it?
Yeah. Yes. Okay. I'll try smoke. I'll think about smoking. I don't. I've never smoked. So it's a
little hard for me to relate to. Right. But I made you just to straight up addiction addiction.
Yeah. What are you addicted to? Because everybody's addicted to something. Yeah. You know,
some people are addicted to cocaine. Some people are addicted to alcohol. Some people are addicted to
sugar. Some people are addicted to drama. That's what's going to say. Right. Yeah. People are
addicted to drama. Yeah. So people do want about that. But yeah. That's psychological warfare.
And you get on iTunes and Google play and all that stuff. What is psychological
warfare? No. And everybody is. All right. Well, if you hit a moment of weakness,
boom, listen to psychological warfare and get you past it. That's what it is. Boom. Also,
speaking of weakness and your workouts workout weakness real weakness physically. That's whatever.
Anyway, you had a plateau and your workout gets some new equipment. That's what I did.
I got rings get it from on it on it dot com slash jockel. I got rings and kettle bells.
Actually, that was a long time ago. I got the kettle bells. But I'm glad I did.
Again, the rings battle ropes like stuff you can vary it at very it up and create little
challenges for yourself within the workout. I know that's what kind of what it work out is. But
you know, when it gets mundane. No. You don't see it. Actually, I think you do know when it
gets mundane because for you, it is mundane. You just, I think that's part of your challenge. I think
that's your challenge. Yeah. Yeah. You exercise. I make up my workouts a lot more than you think I do.
Yeah. Sometimes I do squats and then sometimes I do fronts squats.
Well, there you go. You heard it here. First folks. Like I said, on it dot com slash jockel.
And then you get some tea. A lot of people been asking where to get the cans.
The ready to drink RTD. That's a thing that you start learning when you like get into this kind of thing.
What? The like the industry. Yeah. Turn around. It's RTD. Ready to drink. So if you want
jockel white tea in a can, this is another thing. One day in the world, it's going to be like,
hey, I'm driving out of long drive. I'm going to stop at this 7-11 here. I'm going to go in there.
They're going to have a job instead of having to get a horrible chemical filled, crappy, sugar,
psycho drink. I'm going to get something that is literally good for me. Jockel white tea.
And then that's what's going to happen. But until then, it's on Amazon. It's on Amazon Prime. Why
is that? Because freaking it weighs a lot. So to save money for you on the shipping,
you can get the Amazon Prime and it just comes to your house. And it's awesome. And the obvious
benefit and everyone knows already is that once you drink jockel white tea, you can deadlift
a minimum of 8,000 pounds, including Jordan Peterson. Who overcame his plateau of 7,000 pounds?
You know, let's get it. I'm self-right up there to 8,000 pounds. Got some books too. Yeah.
Books. Way to worry kid. Okay. Mark's mission. Mark's mission is the second one. Yes.
Way to worry kid. And then way to worry kid. Mark's mission. I told you I read this to my daughter
every night. Right. Yes. Now, well, every, here's the thing. When I said it every night, it's like
pretty much every night. It seems like we do other quizzes and stuff. But now she's in kindergarten
now. And now there's a thing where they require, they don't require. But it's the only
they recommend. Yeah. Uh, per night. So I just do one chapter night, boom, boom, boom, boom. And she
got so into, she's into this second one a lot a lot more. Because I mean, not that she wasn't
because the first one is kind of like ethos now because I read it more than once to her. So maybe
that has a lot to do. Yeah. You might go back. Yeah. She's into the new one because it's new. Yeah.
At some point, you're going to go back to the original one and she's going to start
me even like me when I read like I was reading about face the other night for the 47,000th
time. And you're like, you just get more stuff out of it. Yeah. And I think those books, those warrior
kid books, that's what's going to happen. Like when she turned six, she's going to read it again.
When she turned seven, she's going to go like, oh, yeah. But it gets discipline equals freedom.
No, that means right now. Right. Yeah. When she's going to figure that out. Yeah. Nathan James.
Yeah. This makes it extra fun because I know who Nathan James is. You know, same like I know
the thing. So that makes it. It's like extra fun. Where she really like any time he comes up.
Because you know how it kind of each chapter goes back and forth. One is like him at camp and what
happened. Then the other one is like him starting business and when in back to camp and doing the
so it's like that. Right. So every time we go back to Nathan James, she perks up. Like with everything.
So we're at the part where, you know, how he's doing recon. Right. It's finding out. Yeah.
Finding out Nathan James. Yeah. And she's finding out that part and then like she's really
because we tell her that we we still tell that all the time. Not everybody has a TV in the room.
Not everybody has like all this XYZ good stuff and whatever. So she really like it. It was like
she was familiar with the concept. So she really just attached to it. Yeah. But yeah, for some reason,
I don't know because I make my voice like how you make your voice on wherever. When I make Nathan
James, I think that's part of it too. Do I do Nathan James in the audio? No, but no, no, no.
No, when you know how you make your voice when you imitate somebody's dark or whatever, you know,
you're not. But Nathan James is in the dark. No, I know, but I make my voice like Nathan James.
Because I try to make him sound annoying because he's annoying. Oh, God. Okay. But yeah. Anyway,
it's a very dope way that we're the real. Okay. I got the real thumbs up. On the podcast.
I know him. Can we? Yeah. He was down here. But I was okay. We can do this. He was just busy
and he goes, let's wait until I get this thing taken care of and then we'll do it. And I said, cool.
No, so we're going to do it. Yeah. The real Nathan James. Also, discipline equals freedom,
field manual. Best kind of manual there is, by the way, field manual. That's my opinion. This is how to
you know how you have a basic structure slash backbone and just how to be. You know what,
what were you looking for? Operating system. Operating system. Yeah. Yeah. There's your operating system.
Perfect. Perfect. That's your. So it's like boom, you read it. Cool. I got a general thing, but you can
kind of have it. I refer to. Everyone's in the world. It's pretty cool to get feedback on that book.
Yeah. And have people that get completely on the path from that book and then more important.
They stay on the path from that book. Is it possible that a book has that much of an impact? The answer is
the yes. Yeah. And it seems weird to say that. I mean, it does. And it seems weird for me to say that.
But there's that is 100% true. Yeah. It's 100% true. Yeah. And I'll tell you what. I mean, do you
do you read it? Yeah. I mean, I know you. Yes. So I mean, so I was going to say it may not make sense for you,
but it will make it perfect sense to you. Where, you know, like, there's a lot of good books out there. You told
like good books and there, you know, but you read them and they're kind of long and they have the, you know,
they're really laid out very well and there's like, they go into detail, which is good. That's kind of what a good
book kind of does. Right. This one kind of violates that ruin away because it's super basic. But that's why in my opinion,
like, when I go back to it, I can just go back to it and boom, it's all like in there. I don't have to read like 10 or 20 or 30 pages.
Nothing to say for. Yeah. You know, so it's like fundamental first person just drawn in your face. Yeah.
Good reminder. And you got extreme ownership for combat leadership principles that you can use in your
business and life, written might be in my brother, Laith Babin. And we have a follow-up to that book coming out.
It's called the dichotomy leadership. You need to, if you want to get first edition, which, which you do,
hey, somebody at camp gave me a first edition of Ernie Piles book,
brave men first edition. Yeah. How awesome is that? So that feeling that that feeling right there
of like, I got the first edition of this book, brave men. That's the one where he's talking about
the rumbling coming in the noise is building and he just know what it is and he looks up in the sky. He's like,
it was the heavy. Yeah. Probably one of my favorite quotes. Yeah.
And I have the first edition of that book now. So dichotomy of leadership. Of course, what's the
publisher doing? Cotton Corners. Hey, we can get away. Oh, yeah. They're being conservative. Yeah. And of course,
they're going to do that. They're going to do that because that's just what they do. That's what
they're, their, their gamble is. They, they make their little predictions and that's what they get.
That's what they're doing. They'd rather, they'd rather, they'd rather, they'd rather,
actually underestimate, have a little demand for the book and have a little spike and a little
buzz about that. So they, they would rather, they'd be less first edition or rather have more
people walking around with the fourth edition. That's all lame. So anyway, yeah, dichotomy leadership
coming out September 25th. If you want to get on that thing, you can preorder it wherever you
preorder books. You can preorder it. And then got a leadership consulting company called
echelon front where we solve problems through leadership. What kind of problems? All of them.
Because every problem that you have inside your organization is a leadership problem. I'm here to tell
you straight up factually. No matter what the problem is, it's a leadership problem. And I know that
might hurt because guess who the leader is, you're the leader or your subordinate leaders. They're
not doing what they're supposed to do. You need to get them on board with the program. You're not
making the bottom line. Guess what guess what kind of problem that is? It's not a money problem.
It's a leadership problem. Productions not meet and it's quota. Is that a production problem?
It's a leadership problem. So no matter what problems you're having and your organization, they
get solved through leadership. It's me. It's life. It's JP, Dave, Flynn, and Mike. And if you want us to
come and work with your company, don't call us speaking agency, just go to echelonfront.com.
And we will show up and crush. Master 006 might be sold out by the time this gets released.
But if you want to come, we talk leadership intensely and granularly for two days. It's in San Francisco,
October 17th and 18th, you can register for that at extremotorship.com. Same with the roll call.
I think we're done. Let me ask about the roll call. Let me ask you the roll call is when this podcast
comes out. I don't think they'll be any more seats. So for the master and the roll, this is the
first roll call. So I don't know. But for the master, what percentage of, let's say your typical
group of people that come or whatever, what's the percentage of appeal wise? What's the percentage
of just so there's information? Perfect. You know, good guidance. And then there's just to hang.
Like, let's, you know, like, if you look at the days, the days we go from eight in the morning
until four o'clock in the afternoon and on the first day and then the second day, we go
eight in the morning until three o'clock in the afternoon or maybe two, thirty. And to answer your
question, we start, we muster with everyone at 445 in the morning. So we that whole time
the eat and then when we get done at five, we hang out until nine or ten, that night. And then the
next day, same thing, four, 45 in the morning and then we go to Jitu at night. And so yeah, I mean,
where they're the whole time. Yeah, you will 100% hang out. Yeah, that's what I mean. All of us.
Like, you're like, that's your question. Yeah, a percentage of you hanging out and
is 100%. Yeah, that's part of the appeal, right? Because you say, yeah, we muster at 445. But
you, one could think from the outside, hey, that's a workout. But here's the thing. Yeah,
that's a workout, but it's kind of fun. You know, just talking trash and you know, afterwards,
we kind of, you know, and it's kind of a hang until it starts at eight and then beat, you know,
the, the, the brakes that you take or whatever. It's like, oh, yeah, you're kind of a
one. Yeah, you don't take some break. Yeah, you guys, we don't take breaks. We just
answer questions. We talk to people. We take pictures, sign books, whatever. Yeah, and that kind of
happens throughout the whole time. And then after it's sort of wrapped, I painted myself into
a, painted the whole team into a corner. Oh, I totally did. Because it's a little bit
heavy. I was like, look, they're not going to be any green room. We're not going back stage.
We're going to be out there the whole time. So, I guess what we do, there's no green room. There's
no backstage. We're out there the whole time. It's like, like, two 20 hour days is what it is.
Yeah. Because four hours, we get some sleep. You're like, yeah, oh, yeah, you don't want to
green room. Okay. Now you can't have a good idea. Exactly. That's how it goes down.
On top of that, like I said, roll call. We're pretty much done with number one.
You can check and see if there's any openings, but it's probably not looking great right now.
Maybe we can open up a couple more seats. Anyways, for that as well, register at extremownership.com.
And now, of course, we have EF Overwatch, we're connecting spec ops and combat aviation leaders
to companies that need leaders. People are asking, what about guys from conventional forces,
which the reason we started with combat aviation and spec ops, because that's where we came from.
And so that's where we have community ties. Now that we actually have, we actually have some
people coming on the team right now from conventional forces that we work alongside, awesome leaders.
And so we're looking at how we're going to open this up to the rest of the military and get
everyone else engaged. Because, guess what, we work this civilian sector all the time.
I just said problems get solved by leadership. Civilian companies, guess what they need, they need leaders.
And the military has them. So that's where we're going to, if you want to, enroll in that
from either side from either a person that wants a job or a person that's looking for leaders. Go to
EF Overwatch.com. And until we do see you at one of these events or see you in the airport or
see you on the Jiu-Jitsu mat or see you wherever if you want to interact or give us answers or give us
questions. You can do that on the interwebs. We are on Twitter, we're on the Instagram. And we're
also on Facebook. Keep. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink and finally to those of you
who like Peter Nash, Swisher who served in the military or you are serving in the military at this
time. Thank you for your service and for those that protect us here at home in the police and
law enforcement and correction officers and firefighters and border patrol and paramedics and
all other first responders. Thank you for what you do day in and day out and to everyone else
making your way through the world, working and grinding and building and creating. That's
awesome and keep doing those things and do those things with some intent, some good intent,
the intent to make yourself better. And when you've got yourself on a good path, then show someone
else the path help them off that slippery slope. Help them. Because in another time in another place,
it could be you that needs help. So take the world or that little part of the world that you can
take it into your trembling hand and help. Help yourself become better, help others become better,
and in doing so. Help this strange and off and hostile world that we live and make it just a
little bit better by getting out there and getting after it. And until next time,
this is echo and juggle out.